Instructions/Labs/0101-In-place upgrade of Windows 7 to Windows 10.md, before:

# Practice Lab: In-place upgrade of Windows 7 to Windows 10 

## Summary
In this lab, verify the client meets upgrade requirements and performed an in-place upgrade of Windows 7 to Windows 10.


### Scenario
As Windows 7 is reaching end of support in the near future your manager wants you to upgrade your company's laptops to Windows 10. As most of the hardware is relatively new, you decided to use an in-place upgrade on LON-CL6.


### Task 1: Verify that the computer meets the minimum requirements
1.  Sign in to @lab.VirtualMachine(LON-CL6).SelectLink as +++**Adatum\\Administrator**+++ with the password +++**Pa55w.rd**+++


    >[!TIP] To send Ctrl+Alt+Delete to the virtual machine, select  the lightning bolt icon in the upper left of the lab UI and select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**. Alternatively, select the Resources tab, and select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete** under the virtual machine you want to sign in to. Finally, if you see the @lab.CtrlAltDelete icon, you can select it to send the keyboard sequence to the virtual machine.

    >[!TIP] Whenever you see the +++Type text icon+++, you can select it to copy the text string to the virtual machine. 


2.  If a Windows Activation dialog box opens, Select **Ask me later**. Select
    **OK**.

3.  If a Microsoft Windows dialog box opens, select **Restart Later**.

4.  On the taskbar, Select **Start**. Right-click **Computer**, and then Select
    **Properties**.
5.  Enter the settings for:

   -  Processor: @lab.TextBox(CPU)

   -  Installed memory (RAM): @lab.TextBox(RAM)

6.  **Close** the System window.
7.  Right-click **the desktop**, and then select **Screen resolution**.
8.  Enter the screen resolution:

   -  Screen resolution: @lab.TextBox(resolution)

9.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Explorer** icon.
10.  Click **Computer**.
11.  Enter the settings for:

   -  Available disk space on C: @lab.TextBox(dspace)
   
12. Do the values match the miniumum requirements: @lab.TextBox(confirm)

### Task 2: Perform an in-place upgrade from local media

>[!ALERT] LON-CL6 must be activated with a valid Enterprise license; otherwise, the subsequent lab exercise will fail.

1.  Sign in to LON-CL6 as +++**Adatum\\Administrator**+++ with the password +++**Pa55w.rd**+++

    @lab.CtrlAltDelete
2.  If a Microsoft Windows dialog box opens, select **Restart Later**.
3.  If a Windows Activation dialog box opens, select **Ask me later**. Select
    **OK**.
4.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Explorer** icon.
5.  In Windows Explorer, select the **DVD drive**.
6.  In the contents pane, double-click the **setup.exe** file, and select **Yes**.
7.  On the Windows 10 Setup page, select **Next*.
8.  On the Applicable notices and license terms page, select **Accept**.
9. On the Ready to install page, select **Choose what to keep**.
10. On the Select what to keep page, select **Nothing**. Select **Next**, and then
    select **Yes**.
11. On the Ready to install page, select **Install**. The setup program will now upgrade your Windows 7 installation to Windows 10. 

    >[!NOTE] Note: This will take approximately 30 minutes.

### Task 3: Complete the Installation
1. On the Region page, select **Yes**.
2. On the Keyboard Layout page, select **Yes**, then **Skip**.
3. On the Sign in with Microsoft page, select **Domain join instead**.
4. On the Who’s going to use this PC page, provide the following information when prompted, and selecting **Next**
-   Username: +++**LocalAdmin**+++
-   Password: +++**Pa55w.rd**+++

    @lab.CtrlAltDelete
5. When prompted for security questions, select any three questions and enter any answer.
6. On the Do more across devices with activity history, select **No**.
7. On the Get help from your digital assistant, select **Decline**
8. On the choose privacy settings for your device, select **Accept**.
9. Wait for the installation to complete.

### Task 4: Verify that the upgrade was successful 
1.  Select **Start** and type **winver**. Press **Enter**.
2.  Make sure that the version number is 1903.


**Results**: After finishing this exercise, you will have successfully upgrading LON-CL6 from Windows 7 to Windows 10. 

**END OF LAB**

Commit message:

Added steps to activate Windows 7

Instructions/Labs/0101-In-place upgrade of Windows 7 to Windows 10.md, after:

# Practice Lab: In-place upgrade of Windows 7 to Windows 10 

## Summary
In this lab, verify the client meets upgrade requirements and performed an in-place upgrade of Windows 7 to Windows 10.


### Scenario
As Windows 7 is reaching end of support in the near future your manager wants you to upgrade your company's laptops to Windows 10. As most of the hardware is relatively new, you decided to use an in-place upgrade on LON-CL6.


### Task 1: Verify that the computer meets the minimum requirements
1.  Sign in to @lab.VirtualMachine(LON-CL6).SelectLink as +++**Adatum\\Administrator**+++ with the password +++**Pa55w.rd**+++


    >[!TIP] To send Ctrl+Alt+Delete to the virtual machine, select  the lightning bolt icon in the upper left of the lab UI and select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete**. Alternatively, select the Resources tab, and select **Ctrl+Alt+Delete** under the virtual machine you want to sign in to. Finally, if you see the @lab.CtrlAltDelete icon, you can select it to send the keyboard sequence to the virtual machine.

    >[!TIP] Whenever you see the +++Type text icon+++, you can select it to copy the text string to the virtual machine. 


2.  If a Windows Activation dialog box opens, Select **Ask me later**. Select
    **OK**.

3.  If a Microsoft Windows dialog box opens, select **Restart Later**.

4.  On the taskbar, Select **Start**. Right-click **Computer**, and then Select
    **Properties**.
5.  Enter the settings for:

   -  Processor: @lab.TextBox(CPU)

   -  Installed memory (RAM): @lab.TextBox(RAM)

6.  **Close** the System window.
7.  Right-click **the desktop**, and then select **Screen resolution**.
8.  Enter the screen resolution:

   -  Screen resolution: @lab.TextBox(resolution)

9.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Explorer** icon.
10.  Click **Computer**.
11.  Enter the settings for:

   -  Available disk space on C: @lab.TextBox(dspace)
   
12. Do the values match the miniumum requirements: @lab.TextBox(confirm)

### Task 2: Perform an in-place upgrade from local media

>[!ALERT] LON-CL6 must be activated with a valid Enterprise license; otherwise, the subsequent lab exercise will fail.

1.  Sign in to LON-CL6 as +++**Adatum\\Administrator**+++ with the password +++**Pa55w.rd**+++

    @lab.CtrlAltDelete
2.  If a Microsoft Windows dialog box opens, select **Restart Later**.
3.  If a Windows Activation dialog box opens, select **Ask me later**. Select
    **OK**.
4.  Click **Start**, and select **Control Panel**.
5.  Select **System and Security**.
6.  Select **System**.
7.  Under Windows Activation, if the option is available, select **Activate Windows now**, and then select **Activate Windows online now**.
8.  In the Windows Activation dialog box, select **Close**.
9.  Close the System dialog box.
10.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Explorer** icon.
11.  In Windows Explorer, select the **DVD drive**.
12.  In the contents pane, double-click the **setup.exe** file, and select **Yes**.
13.  On the Windows 10 Setup page, select **Next*.
14.  On the Applicable notices and license terms page, select **Accept**.
15. On the Ready to install page, select **Choose what to keep**.
16. On the Select what to keep page, select **Nothing**. Select **Next**, and then
    select **Yes**.
17. On the Ready to install page, select **Install**. The setup program will now upgrade your Windows 7 installation to Windows 10. 

    >[!NOTE] Note: This will take approximately 30 minutes.

### Task 3: Complete the Installation
1. On the Region page, select **Yes**.
2. On the Keyboard Layout page, select **Yes**, then **Skip**.
3. On the Sign in with Microsoft page, select **Domain join instead**.
4. On the Who’s going to use this PC page, provide the following information when prompted, and selecting **Next**
-   Username: +++**LocalAdmin**+++
-   Password: +++**Pa55w.rd**+++

    @lab.CtrlAltDelete
5. When prompted for security questions, select any three questions and enter any answer.
6. On the Do more across devices with activity history, select **No**.
7. On the Get help from your digital assistant, select **Decline**
8. On the choose privacy settings for your device, select **Accept**.
9. Wait for the installation to complete.

### Task 4: Verify that the upgrade was successful 
1.  Select **Start** and type **winver**. Press **Enter**.
2.  Make sure that the version number is 1903.


**Results**: After finishing this exercise, you will have successfully upgrading LON-CL6 from Windows 7 to Windows 10. 

**END OF LAB**
